For the course project, we want to predict Blood-Brain Barrier (BBB) Permeability, which is a Binary Classification problem. Given a molecular structure represented in a string format and its derived chemical properties, the goal is to predict the label y ∈ { 0, 1 } , where y = 1 indicates that the molecule is permeable (penetrates the barrier) and y = 0 indicates it is non-permeable.

We chose this topic because accurately predicting whether a drug candidate can penetrate the BBB is a critical classification task for pharmaceutical development; it is directly related to its efficacy for treating neurological disorders. We want to answer the research question what are the strengths and limitations of di ff erent classification models for predicting molecular permeability?

The dataset we will use is the BBBP.csv dataset (also available on Kaggle), which contains 2050 compounds annotated with their permeability status (1 or 0) and SMILES strings. Because the classical models presented in class cannot directly process string data, we will use Morgan Fingerprints provide a fixed-length numerical representation of the data instead. We will also augment the dataset with computed chemical properties like LogP (lipophilicity) and TPSA ((topological polar surface area). Finally, because the dataset is unbalanced, we plan to using metrics such as AUC-ROC and F1-Score, instead of raw accuracy. To ensure a fair comparison, we will analyze each model after the most optimal hyperparameter have been obtained.